---
title: The Ultimate Blog MK-I
hero: ego-dev.png
prev: 201912151957-hello-world
prevTitle: Hello World
---
> Cogito, ergo sum

## The Ultimate?

```
// ruby
def hello():
    puts 'world'
```

as mention in previous post, this blog were supposed to be both a way to keep track of my learning progress and an to experiment on various stuff on web development. Thus, i build this blog from scratch so in order to be able to change things up without worrying to much on some *magic* by using some prebuilt option.

When building a blog, there's so much option, such as static site generator (ie: Jekyll, Hugo, Gatsby). I've both jekyll and Gatsby in the past, both were an awesome tools to build a simple site, but then again you were pretty limited by the fact that the site were statically generated, that means every content needs to build and can't be dynamically change on the fly. So we need something that be able to load content from external source. Also i always want a way to edit my content and able to see how they would looks in the finished product. The project also needs to be modular and scalable so we can easily be modify, added and future-proofing. And tha stuff would make this blog be the ultimate blog (atleast for me).

### NEXTjs + express + tinaCMS = ❤

First thing first we need a __Content Management System__. But any CMS won't do. As previously mention we need a way to edit content on the fly and be able to see the result realtime. that where's [tinaCMS](https://tinacms.org/) comes, it will be the based of this project by acting as the content editor and management by connecting it to a backend. It also have a plugin system, this is a nice feature that we can use to customize it later.

Then we need a way to show our content. tinaCMS currently supports Gatsby and Nextjs, both of which are React Framework. I go with Nextjs for it's capability to do Server Side Rendering, that will come in handy to build upon later.

Speaking of SSR, i use express as the server to host the Next front-end. Then what i could do is exposing a gitCLient endpoint that later would be consumed by the tinaCMS Form in the Next application. everything works almost seamlessly by just following the docs on the tinaCMS page.

### tinaCMS is not a CMS

Although all seems great. there's some catch by going by these option as of writing this. Currently tinaCMS markdown editor doesn't support inline image, which is a bummer to not be able to add a picture to illustrate your content. the other thing that i noticed is that lack of learning source and better documentation that would speed things up. And as it's name suggest __it is not a CMS,__ which is both a good thing and bad thing, the good thing is that you could make your own backend that would later be consume by tina, but the problem is well...you need to build it. It's not a problem for me though as i planning to build my own in the later version. but the git client would be enough for now.

## Conclusion

as of now there's few things missing including inline image, an proper backend with database and media cdn, bugs here and there. This blog would be build incrementally anyway so please checkout the project page:

[https://github.com/blinfoldking/ego](https://github.com/blinfoldking/ego)


    